<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">

<h1>Andrea Smith: “We Have a Good Hooligan Population Around Here”</h1>

<i>Andrea Smith was interviewed the 10th of May, 2017 at Sidesaddle Bike Shop, the business she co-owns on Commercial Drive. The interview was conducted as part of the This Vancouver <a href ="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/story-city">Story City</a> project. This is an excerpt of a longer interview.</i>

<p>As soon as I was old enough I moved... Well, actually, I went to university first, but the first time I moved out that wasn’t a residence, I moved out to Commercial Drive.

<p class="interviewer">So have you been here since then?</p>

<p>On and off. Yeah, this is my home.</p>

<p class="interviewer">Are there particular aspects to it that makes it feel so much like home?</p>

<p>Well for me, at the time I was like 20 and I had grown up in the suburbs and I was coming out. Commercial Drive and the West End were the two really identifiable queer neighborhoods. So I wanted to find community and be out, and this was the place to do it back then.</p>

<p>The Drive was really different then. This was before Craigslist and the Internet. I mean, I’d gotten my first email address like three or four years earlier. So physical spaces were really important in terms of meeting people and making connections and learning how to be gay. And there was this community center which was above the location where Women’s Wear, the sex toy store, still is called Vancouver Lesbian Connection. And they had a library and, I don’t know, all the things that you have in an old school women’s centre. And they had a housing board and I think that’s where a lot of people found roommates. That’s where I found my first gay roommate.</p>

<p class="interviewer">Were there any other places do you remember spending a lot of time hanging out at?</p>

<p>The Drive, generally. I’ve lived here on and off for 20 years. The neighborhood is dense with memories, pretty much straight up from the water at Powell Street up to … My usual game trail tops out at Trout Lake.</p>

<p class="interviewer">So you’ve been here on and off for about 20 years and have seen quite a bit of change, I imagine?</p>

<p>Yeah, I’ve been through the seven stages of grief with this neighborhood. I think I kind of probably moved here just at the tail end … I mean, neighborhoods are always in transition and I guess depending on which end of the gentrification process you’re on, it can feel like positive change or negative. But when I first moved here it felt like just a miraculous place of a tight-knit community. Basically dykes and Italians in this sort of uneasy truce. Although it seemed like they shared the space really well because the communities have things in common too. Like a really strong sense of neighbourliness and a great love of coffee.</p>

<p>And since then it’s really felt like, although it’s taken different forms, it’s been a fairly steady decline in terms of local character. The Drive used to just be a total place for weirdos. And just little changes. It’s so funny. When I moved here, you used to be able to just walk out into the street anywhere on the Drive. You were supposed to look both ways before you crossed the street, but you could just walk out into the street because the drivers were used to the neighborhood being so pedestrian-oriented and full of so many empowered weird pedestrians that they would just drive really carefully. And so the street, even though there were cars on it, it felt very mellow and pedestrian-friendly. And then they put those traffic lights in with pedestrian-controlled signals, probably on paper that makes it safer. But what it did is it puts in a traffic light and the cars are like “green means go, it’s my right of way” and it really changed the character of the street.</p>

<p>And so just as the street has become more developed, I guess, I have felt that those changes have resulted in a loss of a sense of place and connection. And then as the rents go up you lose independent businesses. One of my favorite businesses on the Drive was a fish store that was run by an Italian-Canadian lesbian called Antonia’s School of Fish. That was the place for a business like that back in the day.</p>

<p class="interviewer">I’d asked you about other places that you hung out in the area as well.</p>

<p>Well, one of my favorites is the Skylight Diner. That place is old school Drive. It hasn’t changed, I think, in the 20 years that I’ve been living here. And the population of people who have been living here for that long, and who are increasingly displaced from the neighborhood and can’t go to their usual places, that one is just keeping going strong.</p>

<p class="interviewer">Can you describe it a little bit?</p>

<p>It’s just a classic … It’s not a classic greasy spoon like kitschy, it’s like normcore. Noticeable because of its rundown-ness and blandness. It’s like the collected bland aesthetics of the past five decades. It’s got sort of torn up booths and then tables with wood-paneled Arborite, which I think would be the ‘70s. And then it’s got inspirational posters of dolphins and gardens framed on the walls. So that’s the ‘80s, I guess. It might top out at the ‘80s. And they serve Chinese and Canadian cuisine, including a delicious eggs benedict with what appears to be nacho cheese sauce on the top, which is delicious.</p>

<p>But the kids from the high school still go there to get their french fries. And the working class people can still get breakfast out there. I get it, it’s hard to run a business in this neighborhood that caters to working class people, because you have to charge enough prices to pay your staff to rent homes within commuting distance of your business. And you have to charge enough to pay the rent that this neighborhood now demands. So it’s kind of a cycle.</p>

<p>I’m sorry. This is a downer. Like I said, I’ve been through the seven stages of grief. Is the final one acceptance?</p>

<p class="interviewer">Were there any queer spaces you can think of from that time period as well?</p>

Well, other than Antonia’s School of Fish, Vancouver Lesbian Connection, which I think might have gone down in ignominy. I mean, feminist and queer politics had shifted and that was kind of a holdover from previous time in some ways. My personal politics, I don’t like to speak ill of former waves of feminism because I’m very grateful for the courage and work that was done by those people. And then times change and movements keep moving forward. But the whole Drive was a queer space. All the breakfast places were staffed by lesbians. I remember there was one very popular local little breakfast spot that was eventually sold. And the first thing the new owner did was fire all the lesbian staff and hire new people. The physical space was still the same but it really changed the character of that place.</p>

<p>There used to be a little movie theater, the Van East movie theater, I think, at like 8th and Commercial. And I think they were a queer film fest venue every year. And they were definitely a hangout. I think they were owned by an Indo-Canadian family but it was a very queer space. But really everything on the Drive. Sophie’s Pet Palace was run by a dyke. There was just a lot of visible dyke business owners, which created a very dykey neighborhood.</p>

<p class="interviewer">So would you say that is part of the change as well? Do you feel like there’s been a dispersal of that community, or has it just changed and sort of … ?</p>

<p>Well, I think that with the commercialization of public space and the financialization of retail strips, and I mean financialization of real estate generally, but where you see … One of my favorite memories of the Drive was that in the ‘90s a McDonald’s opened up and a Subway opened up and they both went out of business because this neighborhood would not support chains. And it’s not really like that anymore.</p>

<p>I think that queer communities generally are changing because the Internet has made it much easier to find community and find your particular subsection of a community instead of needing to go and live in the gay village. Also, this neighborhood’s expensive now and lesbians are women and we make 70 cents on the dollar. And a lot of women are choosing to move out to the suburbs or outlying areas because that’s where they can afford to start a family.</p>

<p>So I’d say the neighborhood has been watered down. It’s still the same population that’s here. Like you walk up the street and see a lot of the same people that you know. But I don’t know, the vibe is just different.</p>

<p class="interviewer">Do you have other memories of the Drive you’d like to talk about?</p>

<p>It’s kind of hard, my whole life has been here. My memories of my life are largely of the Drive. I mean, when I think of quintessential Drive memories, a lot of time spent in parks with my dog, off leash. A lot of awesome interactions with neighbors. There’s a lawless quality to this neighborhood that I think the people who live here really enjoy.</p>

<p>I remember one time I was walking my dog, off leash, ‘cause she was never on leash and the Dog Police pulled up, the City Enforcement people, they pulled up and were like “you need to put that dog on a leash” and I was like “I don’t have one” ‘cause I never needed one and someone yelled from up the block “Maggie’s Mom!” ‘cause they didn’t know my name, just the dog’s name “Do you need a leash?” And the enforcement guy was like, I don’t belong here, I’m outnumbered, he was like “just get a leash” and he drove away.</p>

<p>I feel like, I don’t know, the Drive we kind of look out for each other and a lot of the normal rules that make life boring, it’s not applied here. Whether that’s like no jaywalking or put your dog on a leash.</p>

<p>I have this memory, Halloween on the Drive is always really fun. I remember outside the old Café Roma that isn’t there anymore, I remember one night Halloween, there was just this mob of Italian dudes letting off fireworks and I guess somebody called the cops and then so the cops showed up and the Italian dudes just started showering the cop cars with fireworks. That was pretty awesome. That was a very quintessential Drive moment.</p>

<p>I don’t know, every year there’s so many Italians that have historically dominated this neighborhood but for a while there was that little Brazilian café with a really awesome Brazilian community and so that just amped up the world, the soccer World Cup insanity.</p>

<p>I know some people find it annoying when there’s hooligans in the street but I enjoy it. Makes me feel alive, so we have yeah, a good hooligan population around here.</p>

<p class="interviewer">Any last words? You can talk about Vancouver in general, as well.</p>

<p>I just really, really hope, I mean right now what’s happening with real estate and housing is a global problem. There’s too much money sloshing around the world looking for safe places to be stashed and people who have it are wanting to start putting it in houses and I just really hope that we get some government, any government, with the political will to stem the tide of money that is distorting our housing market. It’s tearing our communities apart and I think it will actually really harm social cohesion in our society because it’s contributing so much to inequality.</p>

<p>If you’re a lottery ticket winner who happens to hold the deed to some shitty eastbound house, you won the lottery over your neighbor who happens to rent and I think it’s a real shame so I am watching people starting to leave Vancouver. I’ve been waiting for everyone to move to New Westminster for a long time and turn that into Vancouver’s Brooklyn. The queer community is still relevant to me and I still want to live in a queer community and I don’t know where it’s going to be when we get priced out of the city which seems like only a matter of time. Those are my thoughts I guess. I’m hoping for a change but we’ll see.</p>
</section></body></html>
