<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 15</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>Anna Zhao and Son: “There’s Lots of Good Social Support Here”</h1>
			<p>
				<i>Anna Zhao and her son were interviewed the 24th of May, 2017 as part of the This Vancouver <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/story-city">Story City</a> project. This is an excerpt of a longer interview.</i>
			</p>
			<p>First name is Anna. Last name is Zhao.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">Okay. So you’ve been in Vancouver how long?</p>
			<p>We moved in 2014, because I went to <abbr class="initialism">UBC</abbr> for my Master. It was a pretty big move. We pretty much sold everything in China. Because his father passed away, so there’s two of us, we moved here, just us. So far, it’s an amazing place, living. I don’t regret about my decision moving here. Because compared to Beijing, people are nicer, more friendly, and more open. With culture diversity too, you meet people from all walks of life and from every different countries. And that we’re all living here is pretty amazing. You don’t see that anywhere in the world, really. I think I got lots of support from the communities. I’m trying to get my permanent residency. I’m not really a permanent resident yet. But I got lots of support from, like he got a Big Brother. I don’t know if you’re familiar with that program. It’s like a charity or nonprofit program for kids, from 8 to 15, who need more male support, either single moms or widows, or even divorced people, if they don’t have enough hours with their fathers or their male figures. And they provide volunteers, they go out every week, they have to set up a role model for them, and basically, moms stay out of it. And it’s just them. So they have fun together. So luckily, we got a role model.</p>
			<p><i>Anna’s son</i>: There’s also a program called Big Sisters.</p>
			<p>Yeah, that’s the opposite, for girls. There was a bit wait time, but luckily we got a really good one for him, since last May actually. So it’s been a year. I’m really happy with it. And also, I go to single mothers’ support group, sponsored by the <abbr class="initialism">YWCA</abbr>. So there’s lots of good social support here.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
