<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 13</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">

<h1>Marion Man: “Finally They Recognize Their Root”</h1>

<i> Marion Man was interviewed in 2015 as part of the This Vancouver Chinatown Stories project. This is an excerpt from a longer interview.</i>

<h3>Marion Man:</h3>

<p>I work in Chinatown since 1976. I arrived in ’76 and I got my job, first job. Finding a job was tough at that time. 1976, right? I found a job just next door to this church on Pender Street called Chinese library. It’s still there. That library was funded by a group of <abbr class="initialism">CBC</abbr>, Canadian Chinese-born kids. They felt that there was a need to preserve some Chinese culture, Chinese books, so they started that library all on voluntary basis.</p>
<p>And I accidently got a job there. I was doing a lot of volunteer jobs when I came here. There was no jobs. I volunteered for <abbr>SUCCESS</abbr>, which is just up there on Pender Street, and I volunteered for YWCA also just a few blocks up there. There was a lot of voluntary agencies here in Chinatown at that time. But most of the jobs they call it contract worker, that means government will give you funding for only three months or six months. And then you know by the end of the term you have to reapply, reapply again. I was working in Chinatown doing volunteer everywhere and I saw this lineup in front of a <abbr class="initialism">BC</abbr> Royal restaurant and I bump into a guy who happened to be working next door in the Chinese library and he told me there might be a possibility to get a job there. And that’s how I got my very first job here. As a contract worker.</p>
<p>And my work was going around in this neighbourhood here, in this Strathcona neighbourhood, to this housing, low-cost housing, mostly occupied by Chinese seniors, they can read and they can write. They speak <i>Toishan</i>, their native language. Not even Cantonese. I have a hard time communicating with them. There was a lot of fun fun stories, you know, we just misunderstood each other. I had to help them to write letters back to china, to their relatives. A lot of people, especially men, they came here without families. And so, it was a pretty lonely life here. They need to write back to China or read the letters from China and they were just ecstatic when they get a letter from china, usually they don’t get it on a regular basis, maybe twice a year three times a year, I was helping them to read it and write back to their families, so that was my first job.</p>

<h3>Interviewer:</h3>

<p>You mentioned that it was kind of a lonely life. Were there certain buildings or opportunities for socializing, or were there certain places where people went to fight that loneliness at that time?

<h3>Marion Man:</h3>

<p>They call it the clansmen association, they have those, but most of those are playing Majong or gambling. A lot of people, immigrants, they came her and got into two big problems: one is gambling and second is prostitute. It’s a very sad story. Because subsequently I became a social worker in Chinatown. And I was working for Greater Vancouver Homemaker Association which is under, I think it’s under city long term care, so I have to visit all these buildings, as you can see the fifty buildings in Chinatown, as of now, still fifty buildings, low cost housing, <abbr class="initialism">BC</abbr> government by city or by clansmen. So I would have to do assessment, like what kind of needs do they have, and we send homemakers or home support to their house to help with the seniors. I remember one of the worst case I had, in May Wah hostel. That building was so very very old, very very run down. At that time, downstairs was chicken meat store, ok? And next door was travel agent, I believe still there. And then the upstairs, you see so many rats, cockroaches, all over then place. And people living in that building have no kitchen. They have a common in the hallway there. They have a stove and they also have a communal bathroom. So very very substandard living, living there. And mostly are men there too. One of the men, I remember, he was really, really⁠—almost like having a life in hell. Like most immigrants, they will save all their money to send back to China for their families. Usually what they did, they buy a meal, let’s say buy a meal with rice on it, you know like, two doors away from the May Wah is Dollar Meat, they buy something, maybe they don’t buy it there, it’s too expensive. They buy somewhere else a meal and chop it into three times to eat it. For whole day. That means one meal for whole day. So their health conditions is very poor. And this guy has also got some disease. I think he was, he blame it on the prostitute, he says “I got it from that lady”. His body got all this … what you call it? Lumps, big lumps in his body, all over his back, all over his front, it’s just terrible. And he won’t go to hospital. So the nurse will come and try to put bandage on it or try to do some sort of hygienic cleaning. So that was they life they have, you know. For most of the immigrant in those days. They were working in Chinese restaurant or laundromat, that was their life their work.</p>
<p>Chinatown used to be occupied by most of Chinese people here. Immigrants, you know, they had a tough life. They had some sad history as well. Some have been discriminated, some of them never had a chance to be educated. So once they’re able to make some money or financially they have more affordability, they want to move out of Chinatown. They don’t want to remember. They don’t want to stay here as a ghetto. And so they move out. And second generation too. I have so many <abbr class="initialism">CBC</abbr> friends, they did not want to speak Chinese. I’m talking about 40 years ago, they did not like to learn Chinese, but now they regret, they say “I wish I can speak Chinese”. So those were the mentality, and that's why people are moving out. And church are being closed down. And the church that survive here are the some of them are very very old churches here, like the one on Gore and Pender. That’s over 100 years old.</p>
<p>I think church was very very important for the immigrants, for the Chinese immigrants at that time. Because they were isolated, somehow. They did not have a lot of friends. And church is a place that they feel safe. They don’t feel that they’re segregated. So church was an important part of their lives, you know. And now, church still very important in this particular location, because the church is situated between Downtown East and Strathcona/Chinatown here. And both communities have a lot of marginal people. In Chinatown⁠—this church is serving a lot of the seniors here. All the seniors are low income, and they are also very very lonely. Still. It doesn’t matter, before or now, seniors are lonely by nature. Because the family, you know, in Canada, a lot of children, they don’t even live in Vancouver, let alone live with the parents. So they are living alone in this low-cost housing. I think they need the support. This church is trying to offer support to this marginal group of seniors here.</p>
<p>Also, to try to welcome the newcomers here too. Now the people coming to this church, not just Chinese people. Also there’s a lot of Caucasian, new families coming in here and so they also attend this church as well. So they can serve the families and children and youth here. And on the other side there’s the Downtown East here, we have a lot of addicts and we have a lot of homeless people, and this church welcome them to come. We have a smaller church, they basically emphasize on working with this group of people. So I think church plays a very important role in this location, in Chinatown location. For the reason that the capacity of the population and the different ethnic groups here. It’s very multi-cultural here in Chinatown, as you can see it, right?</p>
<p>Also, this church now is not like before. Before is a Catholic church, it was a Korean church before this, and now it’s a community church. That means we embrace everybody here. We don’t have any denominations. Now we have four churches working together here. We might have more. We like to see this church as a community centre. Who need to come to use it, they can use it. Even some social agencies, they have a need to use it, we have an open door for them to use it as well, too.</p>
<p>I was working with the marginal most the time as a social worker. Most the people I serve, they are underprivileged, and they are somehow segregated from the mainstream they never had the chance to mingle with the mainstream. So in some sense, there is some sort of segregation there. That’s why I understand why those second generation <abbr class="era">CBC</abbr>, they don’t want to identify themselves as Chinese. I come to understand why they don’t want to learn Chinese. Because they want to be more identified as local people, as Canadian people. They don’t feel they’re Chinese people, they don’t want to feel that they are Chinese people. And now, I think things have changed. Thanks to this multiculturalism too, the promotion of multi-culturalism, people think you are who you are and you should be proud of who are and your root, and your root can contribute to this multiculturalism. And so I think that’s been improved in my opinion.</p>
<p>I see some people moving back here. The third generation, they are moving back to Chinatown, some of them. Still not in a big wave. I see some of them, which is a good sign. I think finally they recognize their root, and they are not ashamed of their past.</p></section></body></html>
