<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 9</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>Nikki Roussanidis: “A Community of Really Tight-Knit Families”</h1>
			<p>
				<i>Nikki Roussanidis was interviewed on the 1sth of February, 2017 as part of the This Vancouver <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/islandora/object/islandora:hellenic_stories">Hellenic Stories</a> project. This is an excerpt of a longer interview.</i>
			</p>
			<p>My name is Nikki Roussanidis, and my maiden name was Balatsas. My family came to Canada, my mom and dad, came to Canada in 1954. Came into Regina and then moved to Kitimat in 1956, then came back down to Vancouver in 1960 or ’61.</p>
			<p>That year, my father opened up his first business in Vancouver, Leo and Chris’ Service Station. It was an establishment, a Texaco station, on the corner of Broadway and Carolina from 1961 to 1984. His brother and himself, Chris Balatsas and Leo Balatsas, opened up a second service station in 1977 on 49th and Victoria Drive. They were prominent businessmen in the Greek community, both of them.</p>
			<p>Growing up, it’s all I can remember, as a real youngster, having to go to the Texaco on Broadway to visit my father because he worked literally from sun up to sundown. There were days that we hadn’t seen him for days, and my mother would drive us to the gas station so we could see my dad.</p>
			<p>And then later on in life, at 12 years old, it didn’t matter at this point whether I was a boy or a girl. I started working at the gas station pumping gas, as all my friends worked in their parents’ business. A lot of them were lucky, they had restaurants so they were indoors. But I have pumped many tanks of gas in a skirt and shoes.</p>
			<p>What else can I tell you? Growing up in Vancouver, it was a really small community of really tight-knit families. People that had immigrated at the same time. A lot of them knew each other from Greece, as my parents knew a lot of people that they grew up together in Greece, in Piraeus, and came here and met again in Vancouver. We were like a small family of families. People are still referred to as Uncle John or Uncle Nick or Aunt Tessie or Thia Georgia because it was so close.</p>
			<p>Of course with my uncle’s family, who my dad and his brother, we were together dinners, Easter, Christmas, and weekly visits three, four times a week, even though they worked together all day. But everybody I knew worked in their parents’ business, it was a given back then. We didn’t have a choice.</p>
			<p>I guess the other good thing about growing up here is when I was a teenager at 14, they resurrected the Maids of Athena, which is the girls’ subsidiary of the <abbr>AHEPA</abbr>, American Hellenic Educational Progressive Association.</p>
			<p>The <abbr>AHEPA</abbr> was the men’s association. The Daughters of Penelope was the women’s association. The Sons of Pericles was the teenaged boys’ association. The Maids of Athena was the girls’ association.</p>
			<p>The Maids of Athena got resurrected because the chapter always evolved. And then when the girls grew up, they left. Then it dissolved, and then they would resurrect it. When I was 14, we resurrected the Maids of Athena with about 20 teenaged girls.</p>
			<p>At that time it was in the ‘70s, so disco was a big hit here. We held a fundraiser down here in the Greek community, in this hall. We had over 300, 400 kids attend at a dollar a ticket. Our chapter made a lot of money that one night. At $1 a ticket, you can imagine when 50 cents for pop, because we couldn’t have alcohol. We were all underage and we got chaperoned. We gave it all to charity, as I recall. I happened to be the president of the Maids that year, for two years running.</p>
			<p>What else can I tell you about the Daughters of Penelope? Which everybody wants me to talk about. The Daughters of Penelope in Vancouver has been running strong for a number of years. I’m going to say some time in the ‘50s. I’m not exactly sure. Mary Leonidasv and Marie Kyriakos and Lili Spilos, Sara Anton, who was the pianist for the church for many, many years, were some of the founding members. My mother, Elizabeth Balatsas, is still a member. She’s 89 years old. The chapter’s still going okay.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">And so the society raises money for charities?</p>
			<p>The Daughters of Penelope, again, the women’s subsidiary of the <abbr>AHEPA</abbr>, raises money for charities. Some of our notable charities, we raised the first $25,000 seed money to start the Hellenic Chair at SFU. Over the years, cancer research, Doctors Without Borders, Covenant House, Food Bank. Most recently, we gave another major donation to <abbr class="initialism">BC</abbr> Children’s Hospital in the amount of $25,000. We gave $10,000 to <abbr class="initialism">MS</abbr> research probably in the last 15 years. It’s a small group of women now.</p>
			<p>Regrettably, the interest has died. The older women are too old to fundraise, and younger women don’t see it as a necessity to come out and bond with other Greek women and do that sort of fundraising, regrettably. The Philoptochos does a lot of that. It’s one of those things, right?</p>
			<p class="interviewer">A few of the other people have been talking about where you would hang out and talk with other people or just hang out with other people that you knew in the Greek community.</p>
			<p>When we were kids, you mean?</p>
			<p class="interviewer">When you were kids, yeah.</p>
			<p>Oh, God, Bino’s. Everybody went to Bino’s on Broadway and Arbutus.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">What was Bino’s?</p>
			<p>It was just a coffee place. Bino’s was a chain of all night long … It’s like a Denny’s, let’s put it that way. We’d go to Bino’s. There was a place called Tuesday’s on Broadway. All the Greek kids would hang out there. It was a given, Sunday night everybody went to Tuesday’s for coffee.</p>
			<p>After the clubs, everybody went to Bino’s or Denny’s for breakfast. We had the <abbr>GOYA</abbr> here for a while, so Father Partsafas office has the <abbr>GOYA</abbr>* going in the Community Center. The <abbr>GOYA</abbr>, when I was a part of it, we actually did some traveling down to the States and met other chapters from Seattle. When I was part of the Maids of Athena, again, we brought the chapters from Seattle and Portland. I can’t remember what other … Spokane, possibly. We had sleepovers and we went back and forth. It was a very, very simple childhood.</p>
			<p>The Greek community was sorta like the hub for us. Our parents, if we told them we were coming here for an event, they never batted an eye. Everybody met here for one thing or another. They started, I don’t know, some sports activities. I don’t remember. We had volleyball going. Too far back to remember.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">Was that mostly at this current location?</p>
			<p>This current location. Yeah. That’s why they built it. My father was on the board here for many, many, many, many years. Again, Wednesday night was a meeting, Monday night was a meeting, this was a meeting, that was a meeting. The immigrants that came here really strived to build this community centre for their kids and their grandkids. All of it was volunteer back then. I don’t think there were any paid positions other than the secretary of the community, I think. The priest, obviously, but the man has to live.</p>
			<p>*Greek Orthodox Youth Association</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
