<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 10</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>Effie Karapidakis: “Which Is Your Homeland: Greece, Crete, or Canada?”</h1>
			<p>
				<i>Euthalia (Effie) Karapidakis was interviewed on the 5th of February, 2017 as part of the This Vancouver <a href="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/islandora/object/islandora:hellenic_stories">Hellenic Stories</a> project. The original interview was conducted in Greek, and transcribed and translated at Vancouver Public Library. This is an excerpt from a longer interview.</i>
			</p>
			<p>My name is Euthalia Karapidakis, and I have been in Vancouver since 1964. I came here engaged, my fiancé having been here before me, in order to get married. We got married at Saint George’s church, at 7th and Vine. And we baptized our children there. Later on, I got pregnant. I have two children, two sons. As things turned out, one of them lives in Greece right now, in the place I came from. I was born in Heraklion, Crete. That’s where I came from. And my child lives there now, in the same house I grew up, my son with his wife and their two daughters. We have been going back to Greece, we kept visiting to Greece all these years. Perhaps it was that … We kept special ties with our homeland all these years, and that’s why my children loved Greece, although they were not born there. We had that longing of returning to the homeland and we tried twice to go and settle back there. We sold everything here, we put our belongings to containers and returned to Greece. Our children grew up, they finished high school, and one after the other - they are three years apart- went to University in Greece, again having in mind that they will settle and stay there. We kept visiting Greece every year since our children were here and we still do, until last year when we got a small apartment near our children. We hope, now that we are both pensioners, that we will go and spend our last years there. Last summer, last year that I was in Greece close to my children for three months, my son often asked me a question, which I would like to repeat here. He was asking: “Which is your homeland: Greece, Crete, or Canada?” However, when I am in Greece, the first two-three months I am OK. It is summer, summer vacations. When we stay longer, I start to miss Vancouver, our friends. We have been here for so many years, almost 52. So many years, I have made so many friends that I can easily say - in my mind and my heart - they can even replace my family.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">How was Vancouver when you first came here?</p>
			<p>When I first came here, I liked it. I am a person who likes the company of people. When I came here, I looked for opportunities to get involved in the community. I tried to help at the old church - of course, it was not very organized in the old days. I lived in the area of Main Street. We lived there the first years. We rented only for one year when I first came, Main and 26th. Then we bought a house on Main and 30th. We lived there for many years. Then we bought a house near Oakridge Centre. We stayed there until 1992 when we moved to Richmond. The last 9 years I have been a board member of the Hellenic Community of Saint George’s, and the last six years I have been a Treasurer of the Community</p>
			<p class="interviewer">Have you served in the Philoptochos all these years?</p>
			<p>I am a member of the Philoptochos all these years. I was a board member for 25 years. For 6 or 8 years- I can’t remember exactly, as President of the Philoptochos. Also, I was quite involved in the Cretan Association, one of the largest associations that was ever formed in Vancouver. It has quite a few members, more members than any other [Greek] association Of course, now the associations have started to become scarce; now they leave, they almost get dissolved, because the young people do not have the same needs that we had when we first came here. We missed our homeland so much, we had come to a foreign land for the first time.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">I was also a board member [of the Cretan Association]. President of the Cretan Association. Together with my husband, my children, we were members. My children were members of the Cretan dance group. The Cretan Association was founded in 1967, at the old church. We had our meetings there at the basement. It was the first [Greek] local association in Vancouver. Slowly, more associations were formed, and at one point we had 32 associations! And now we have three or four …</p>
			<p class="interviewer">What other changes can you see in Vancouver and in the community?</p>
			<p>What I see is, since we have this large metropolitan community of Vancouver - of course, there are two more Greek communities - we could have had more registered members. For some reason, people believe that you do not need to be a registered member of the Community. However, the Community has expenses, as we all know from our households. We should not think that the Community will be there. It is not a given thing. We have to keep it.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">Do you have a special memory you want to mention?</p>
			<p>The only thing I want to say is that in those olden days, when my children were young we had zeal. We were eager to participate in Canadian celebrations. There was Canada Day, on July 1st. Then there was Greek Day, which the City gave to us on the last Sunday in June. Greek Day started in 1974. I remember the night [before Greek Day] and I want to say it. In one evening, I and two sisters - my <span lang="el">koumbares</span> - sat and sew the three costumes which we wore the following day. Because the Cretan Association needed to show that we were “something” and we did that. It had not been around for long since 1967 and we had not bought any costumes. So we presented [on Greek Day]. In those days, despite our limited means we prepared floats for the parade. We had a parade [on Greek Day]. It was not just selling food; we had floats, we had a parade, all the children were dancing. At the steps of the Art Gallery, they used to have a celebration for new Canadian citizens. At that place, there was a big square with steps and the new citizens were taking their citizenship oath there.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">Were you invited?</p>
			<p>And they were inviting us to bring the children dressed up in the local/national costumes. We couldn’t wait - both we and the children … To load them in the cars, all dressed up, and so on … with our flags. They danced. And I remember they would also offer cake.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
