<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 6</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>Judy Hanazawa: “Vancouver Needs to Learn as We Go”</h1>
			<p>
				<i>The Story City team was invited to Tonari Gumi, the Japanese Canadian Voluneers Association, to speak with community members. We heard from a range of people speaking about their experience as Japanese-Canadians, their personal histories and what Tonari Gumi means to them. She was interviewed at the same time as Grace Eiko Thompson (the previous interview in this book). This is an excerpt of a longer interview.</i>
			</p>
			<p>My mother went back to Japan during the ‘30s as a young child and returned again when she was 15, and she and my father just got married at the point where Pearl Harbor happened. Everybody was living in Steveston, and they just married and my sister was born in ’41 and then everybody had to go through the internment.</p>
			<p>As Grace had mentioned, there were many Japanese Canadian fishing families who were able to get into the self-supporting camps. Which is what happened with my family, so they ended up in Bridge River which is near Lillooet, that area, and my grandparents, my mother and father, and my sister who was already born in Steveston, and then my middle sister was actually born in Bridge River.</p>
			<p>The difference in her life being a premature, very tiny tiny baby and my mother’s hardship I think indicated how tough life was in Bridge River. Eventually my father found work in a sawmill in Merritt, so my family and a few other Japanese Canadian families moved to Merritt, which is where I was born.</p>
			<p>The connection to Vancouver is that rather than go right back to Steveston postwar, my father was able to get back into fishing by 1950 because all the Japanese Canadians were able to return in 1949, back to the coast. Many families didn’t, but my family I think had a very attached attitude about ocean and fishing and their livelihood, so everybody returned to fishing, and my father did in 1950. But they decided to move into Downtown Eastside Vancouver, Strathcona. And it’s true what Grace has said about families not returning and the community in that area of Vancouver being decimated, because there was no more Powell Street corridor of Japanese shops in the town there.</p>
			<p>But there was still the Japanese language school, there was still the Vancouver Buddhist Temple, and so my parents felt that there was the beginning of a tiny community to begin growing. I went to Strathcona elementary school, postwar as my sisters did as well, and I grew up in Eastside Vancouver in Strathcona until I was 15 years old.</p>
			<p>And I just totally thought that the kind of life there for a child growing up was normal, which it was, and yet what was so wonderful about Strathcona, in that era of postwar Vancouver, was that there was all kinds of children of all kinds of ethnic backgrounds. Including the African Canadians families in the Hogan’s Alley area.</p>
			<p>It was a time when we all knew we were from culturally different backgrounds, but somehow we were all Strath kids, and we were all Eastside kids, and I think the friendships that were made there are lasting to this day, so of course I’ve got my Strathcona friends and so do my sisters, and there’s a lot of crossover, even though the Chinese Canadian community and Japanese Canadian community were not connected really, and Chinese Canadians really had issues about Japan because of what happened in China. So grandparents had these attitudes and yet us kids at Strathcona totally mingled and there were marriages later, there were couples going steady, it was quite a mixed, wonderful kind of little growing-up environment for us kids.</p>
			<p>Strathcona was interesting, too, because many of the teachers were British, Anglo-Saxon and so they had this kind of British attitude about things, too, and yet they were trying to create us into little sort of British-attitude kids, of stiff upper lip and so on. It was kind of a strange mix.</p>
			<p>In the middle of that there was a Jewish music teacher, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Goldberg, who was wonderful and he created his own operas and we all had operas every second year and so at Strathcona, it was wonderful.</p>
			<p>But anyway, at the point where everybody else went to Britannia High School in Eastside Vancouver, the expropriation of properties in Vancouver happened in the ‘60s and so the pressure was on to sell property to bring in the freeway entrance which was the plan at the time. And that’s why Hogan’s Alley disappeared, too.</p>
			<p>So at that point, my parents sold because there was pressure to sell to the city, and we moved to South Vancouver, which was a completely different life for me, I was the one who went through high school at Killarney High School. And it was a sea of white faces, and for the first time I knew what it was to be a minority, to feel the sort of veiled racism quite a lot, and realize that Strathcona was very special.</p>
			<p>I did graduate from Killarney, I went to <abbr class="initialism">UBC</abbr>, I became a social worker later. I married, you’ll find that in the third generation of our Japanese Canadian community, there was totally majority of out marriage. My husband was Caucasian, a music teacher. It was an interesting life. We had two children, he’s passed away now, but sometimes I think he had issues with his own stability.</p>
			<p>But as I graduated from university I became a social worker, he was a music teacher. We went up north, our children were born in Hundred Mile. Our marriage didn’t work out, and I came back to Vancouver eventually.</p>
			<p>At the point of Japanese Canadians getting Redress, I was able to get money because of being in that age group which was affected by the internment. So with my own 21,000 dollars I went back to school and got a Master’s of Social Work, and became a single parent raising my children.</p>
			<p>Also it connected me to the Squamish Nation, where I continue to have ties to this day, and that’s where I basically learned what it was to work in your community, and to look to supporting your own community. I learned so much from my ties to the Nation, and all the strong women mostly who I worked with there. And also I became quite sensitized to aboriginal issues and aboriginal rights, and the unresolved issues for their community.</p>
			<p>At that point of my marriage, me single parenting, I finished my university and then I ended up working in the Vancouver area. I even worked in Strathcona as a social worker again, it was interesting to do that. And it was also very very challenging because of the unresolved issues with aboriginal women, Downtown Eastside Vancouver, and the struggles of poverty. All those things became very much an awareness of the ongoing struggles of so many communities.</p>
			<p>This was in the ‘90s, in the ‘90s, it was very difficult. However, I also became quite involved in my own community being inspired by working at Squamish Nation, and receiving my Redress money. And so I did become involved in human rights issues and social justice issues in my own community.</p>
			<p>And that this point now, my children are grown, I’m a grandparent. And again, it’s interesting how our own Japanese Canadian community has gone through various changes. It’s very clear that most of my generation, my third generation, out married. And so we have many children who I think were driven by their own need for identity to come back to know more about their Japanese Canadian roots.</p>
			<p>It’s certainly affected a lot of the young people that we work with now who are as Grace said, right in, they’re working in the Downtown Eastside. Understanding that their great grandparents were there as well, and understanding what displacement is. The great work they’re doing is in partnering with the residents of the Downtown Eastside.</p>
			<p>The blending of our history with the current issues of the day, and making sure that it’s relevant by standing with people who are facing displacement. It’s a very very great concern that we have in the human rights area of our community, tied in with the young leaders who are doing the work, right in the area.</p>
			<p>I agree with Grace that I see a lot of positive change and yet, it’s just seeing how the waves of generations have come through. For sure Vancouver, I think, needs to learn as we go, too. We’ve gone to city council about the Downtown Eastside issues. We’ve wanted to say to council “As you apologize to Japanese Canadians about displacement in the ‘40s, you cannot ignore displacement going on in that very area where many Japanese Canadians lived.”</p>
			<p>And so we’re going to be holding the city to making sure about that, so our role is in backing up and standing with the people of the area. At this point now, it’s just a matter of more work in that area, and seeing as Grace said, that we need to stand with the First Nations as well, and I completely feel that way, too, because of my ability to work in the community at Squamish Nation. It’s been quite an eye-opening experience.</p>
			<p>Always with the awareness that there’s such a great acceptance of humanity that First Nations peoples hold. Their first tendency is to show respect, and give respect. And it’s incredible to me, with what has happened in their community, that they still hold to those principles no matter what. And it’s been very gratifying for me to be able to work there.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">Can you talk a little bit about how you first got involved in the Squamish nation?</p>
			<p>Yeah, I went back to <abbr class="initialism">UBC</abbr> because of the Redress payment I received and I was able to go into the Master’s of Social Work program, and my practicum placement. Because one of the issues I was aware of being a social worker without a degree, and I worked for the province, was the high number of aboriginal children in care.</p>
			<p>One child that I had worked with had attempted suicide because he was adopted by non-First Nations people and they had a marriage breakdown and had issues of their own and they actually brought him back to the Ministry to say we cannot, our marriage is breaking down, we cannot continue to look after him. And he was 15 years old, and he became a child on my case load after he attempted suicide. And so some of our work was to try to reconnect him back to his nation.</p>
			<p>So being aware of that, and aware that First Nations were beginning to do their own child welfare work, I went into getting my degree and got placed at Squamish Nation with that kind of focus of saying “if you’d like me to help in this area, I’m available.” Which is exactly what we did. We developed the Nation’s own agency in the Nation, and we still had to use the provincial law, but it was on the terms of applying it within their own community, using culture and values of the people.</p>
			<p>And it’s still evolving in that way now. So that was how I got connected there. And then regarding Vancouver, I live in Eastside Vancouver, I still feel very strong ties to Strathcona.</p>
			<p>It’s interesting, like I said, I feel the ties to the Downtown Eastside and the language school, it does hold Japanese Canadians together, there still, because of the buddhist temple at the corner of Jackson and Powell. And the language school which also has community events on Alexander. So there are gatherings in the area, for sure.</p>
			<p>There are some gathering places, but I do agree with Grace, it’s nowhere near what it was, there is not the community that there was before. I think it’s helped to have the post Redress funding towards to different organizations who gather people, like Tonari Gumi, they gather there, and a lot of seniors still go there. And that’s a good thing.</p>
			<p>The Japanese language school has a community hall connected as well. So those are places for gathering and there have been large events there.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">Did you go to the language school?</p>
			<p>I did. That was the fairly common thing with us Japanese Canadian kids in postwar Eastside Vancouver. We often went to the language school three days a week, after English school. So it wasn’t unusual to go Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday morning to Japanese school. When you went Monday to Friday to Strathcona for regular school, yeah. I did go.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">And your children, did you decide to put them in language school as well?</p>
			<p>I tried for a bit, but we were living out in the Fraser Valley, and there was a woman who wanted to start a Japanese school and she tried for the one month and she gave up. Even had some lessons right in my house, but yeah they don’t have the language. And my own language, my mom passed away in 2006, so she was the one person I used to speak to. The language, it’s one of the major things that is a very concrete thing if you look at our community, and the effects of interment, and of racism. And what Grace is saying is very true, it’s always been an issue. And we’re going to have an intergenerational gathering, I think at the end of this year, and the matter of what everybody went through, the racism in their life experience, is very concrete for everybody so it’s not something that somebody can say, “well, we’ve outgrown that,” or “we’ve evolved.” No, it’s still very much there and you always have to address it, and be proactive about it. It’s always there to be proactive about, it’s always there.</p>
			<p>And in this era, too, we were just talking [about] what happened at the anti-racism march in March when the Sons of Odin appeared and threw smoke bombs at the people.</p>
			<p>So those things are happening as well, and so I think it’s always an issue. And for my children, it’s an issue as well. Because they’re biracial the thing for them to get asked is “What are you?” The thing for me to have gotten asked was “So where’s your family from?” You know? Because there’s an assumption you’re a perpetual foreigner.</p>
			<p>I’m always nice, so I say, “Well I’m Japanese Canadian.” “I’m Japanese” so they know, but the fact that I’m a third generation wouldn’t have occurred to anybody, because people make assumptions because of your appearance. You were born somewhere else and you’re here as an immigrant.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">Did any of the grandkids go into the language schools yet, are they still young?</p>
			<p>Yeah, my granddaughter actually did go to the language school, it was an interesting experience because more of the kids who go to language school speak Japanese at home. And there are quite a number of Japanese-born women who’ve married Canadian husbands, and so there’s biracial children who’ve spoken Japanese at home because of their moms, and who’ve gone on to language school.</p>
			<p>And my granddaughter didn’t have that. So she’s in French immersion now, but it was kind of difficult for her, and so my daughter decided in the end to focus on her getting involved in other things and then she went on to French, so she’s nine now.</p>
			<p>It is very much a language loss. Even though I went to Japanese school and I spoke Japanese with my mother, my language is very not there. Grace is really lucky, she’s good at language, Japanese speaking. Her mom taught her at home, and she retained it.</p>
			<p>So she’s a phenomenon because there are many people who are even Grace’s age who don’t speak Japanese very much at all. And so the manner of what happens to a community with issues like internment and so on, one very concrete loss is language. Huge loss, because language does retain culture embedded in it.</p>
			<p>In some ways, there was a desire not to be hated, not to be the enemy alien. And so there was an almost a decision with some families as well, to not teach their children. But, you know, that’s a direct result of the historic situation for our community and social attitudes like racism, but still, that systemic racism decided upon what happened with our community and so one of the losses that is very concrete to me is the loss of the language. And culture. And as you become, you’re here, you do evolve as Canadian with the generations, but with the freedom to evolve in your own way, but with our community that freedom was taken, right? So it’s just abrupt. You can see the abruptness in this third generation of what happened. Yeah, so anyway. It’s so heavy duty.</p>
			<p class="interviewer">But this is Vancouver’s story, too.</p>
			<p>It is Vancouver’s story, so yeah. So many people’s stories.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
