<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 7</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>Sophia Karasouli-Milobar: “Where Is A Greek Church?”</h1>
			<i>
				Sophia Karasouli-Milobar was interviewed on the 26th of January, 2017 as part of the This Vancouver Hellenic Stories project. This is an excerpt from a longer interview.</i>
			<h3>Sophia Karasouli-Milobar:</h3>
			<p>I came to Canada in 1990. I’m a different type of immigrant. I was not a refugee, or an economic immigrant. I came because I met my husband while we were both studying in England and we fell in love. He was Canadian, and we decided to come here. So in a way, it was much easier for me coming here. In that sense, I came here with a Canadian who knew the system, had family. I knew English, because I was a Master’s degree student in England. So I didn’t have any difficulties really with the language, and still it was very difficult.</p>
			<p>I remember the very first thing I did was to ask around “Where is a Greek church?” “Where is a Greek community?” I felt I was so far away from my country and from my own family, and my parents, and everybody else. And somehow the distance, the long flight, made me realise how far I am and how difficult it will be to visit. When I was in England I could really get back home much easier.</p>
			<p>Anyway, so they told me about the community and I came here. I think it was the second day I was in Canada, we didn’t even have a place to stay we’re staying with an aunt of my husband he told me where the Greek community is and I came and met with the secretary. She was from my part of the world. And we started talking about some people that I knew and she knew, and I felt so much better, right away. And then she said “You come to the church on Sunday and you will meet more people”. And I was never truly a church-goer before. I would go on feast days, but I wasn’t a regular Sunday church-goer. But I went. People really welcomed me after the service. I was introduced by the secretary to some of her friends. And they were so happy to see someone from Greece. Some of them remembered themselves, when they came, and they didn’t know anyone. I had some people who really opened their arms, so to speak, and they welcomed me. They invited me and my husband to their place for dinner. Or there was a picnic that the Greeks would organize and we would go.</p>
			<p>And very soon I started to feel I belong somewhere. And I can hear my language and I can speak my language. And although, as I said, that was not an issue, because I did know English, still I felt at home speaking and hearing Greek being spoken. So anyway, then I started coming to the church on a regular basis. And it was more that, not just the religious aspect, but the social aspect. That was a way of connecting with the community.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
