<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 11</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>Greg Rudloff: “It’s a Nice Festival”</h1>
			<i>
				Greg Rudloff was interviewed on the 14th of June, 2017 at Vancouver Public Library’s Dunbar Branch as part of the This Vancouver <a href ="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/story-city">Story City</a> project. This transcription is a short excerpt of a longer interview.
			</i>

			<p>Dunbar has Salmonberry Days which runs through May every year, and has been going for 25 years now. Just a lot of little community events that go on, that are organized by our core group of people. A couple of people in this neighborhood, four or five years ago were talking about there wasn’t a lot of spirit in the neighborhood. What we need to do is have a festival for this. So, these two people got together with a few of their friends and decided, “Well, let’s decide a time in May. We’ll just schedule the event and see who turns out.” So, it’s virtually all free. It’s kind of evolved over the years. Seeing of course, people love it, and have for years. It’s a nice festival.</p>

			<p class="interviewer">What’s the funnest part?</p>

			<p>Well, every year, they bring out one of the old city buses from the transit museum, the city has a transit museum with all the old buses, and they take you on a tour somewhere. This year, they went out to Steveston, to the cannery. The old cannery. Another year they went to Westin Island to some of the farms out there. Every year it’s different. So, it’s just kind of like you load up. You have to get there early or you don’t get a seat. Because, the only number of seats here. It’s usually a sell out. These people go off for the day, and do a tour somewhere.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
