<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 8</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>Angelos Pappas: “Greeks Are Citizens Of The World”</h1>
			<i>Angelos Pappas was interviewed on the 5th of February, 2017 at the Hellenic Community Centre as part of the This Vancouver Hellenic Stories project. This is an excerpt of a longer interview.</i>
			<h3>Angelos Pappas:</h3>
			<p>My dad came to Canada in 1910, and he arrived from New York and went straight to Prince George. There was jobs there in those days. There were many Greeks in those days. They came to Canada, especially British Columbia, for work.</p>
			<p>And of course they worked in any way they could find a job. But since he knew the language, he later on became foreman when they were building the Grand Tram Railway from Prince Rupert to Prince George, from there all the way to Vancouver. He had more than 200 people, and he had many native people.</p>
			<p>Now this story, it wasn’t even to me, from my father. But this story was given to me from an elderly Indian person, here, when I came in 1956, later on. I mean, about ’57, ’58. This old fellow, it was down on Pender Street. And he told me, he said, “Papas, oh Papas”, he says. “I had a friend”, he says. Actually he said, “We had a friend”, the Native people, “Papas, George”, and he was from a small village in Greece, and he was foreman when we were building the railroad. And he always cared for the Native people and gave us jobs.</p>
			<p>“And I was a water boy”, he said. “I was a water boy”, and I never forget him. And he told me all the story. And I went to Smithers, one time, to find out, because it was in the archives there: how it was built, and how people were doing it … hand-work everything.</p>
			<p>And I found quite a few things. But I knew further on, the story, from my dad and from my uncle. They were working with the fur industry later on. As they were working in the railways, they were buying furs and selling furs, pelts.</p>
			<p>And later on it became a company, what was known here in Vancouver, the Papas Furs, Western Canada Fur Action. And that is the company that I worked for. I came right into it.</p>
			<p>I traveled throughout the North, the Arctic, everywhere in the Arctic, western Arctic and eastern Arctic, meeting with Eskimos and Inuit and Native peoples and white people, working, because I was in the business, in the fur business. But in my capacity, to advise … about the quality of the fur pads, and that’s why I went there. I wasn’t going just for business, but I was going as an advisor to talk to Natives, to people, to see when to take the pelts, when the quality is good, when to trap them, when it is breeding season to avoid it, and how to protect the species. It was something that I was very much interested.</p>
			<p>And this what made me really tied up to the country, tied up. When you are young, you’re a little bit on these things. You are really enthusiastic, and I was enthusiastic, and I participated in many other committees, in political committees, and everything, because I wanted to be part of what was happening, how this country was built, and how this province was built, and everything.</p>
			<p>And it takes us to where we are today. And many years, of course, we had to work, to work for the community, to build up the community. And this story is what brings me, ties me to the country. Not only that my parents were here early, before we were born, or my brother was born here. But it ties me to the development of the country.</p>
			<p>We had to find time for the development of the community. The community was built by people who came here in the turn of the 19th century, early, on 7th Avenue.</p>
			<p>It was 2305 West 7th Avenue. That’s where the Hellenic Community was. That’s where the Saint George original cathedral was. Today it’s used by the Kitsilano groups, and they have the homes and everything. But they use that old church as a referral center for many people.</p>
			<p>And lately Father Costantinos, they have a Divine Liturgy once a year, because they want it. They said their community should have a Divine Liturgy once a year, or twice a year. So Father Costantinos was kind enough, because young people are a little bit more spiritual, do those things.</p>
			<p>And that keeps the span of the community life, the history of the community together, without [selling] the property. We’re not there anymore. That’s nothing. But it’s not the sentimental is there. Sentimental is there. You don’t sell church.</p>
			<p>But this property, this is how it’s done here. For instance, in Greece, church is here, from the third century. It just stays there. Nobody can sell it. Nobody can move it, nothing. It stays there. You have been to Greece. You have seen all the churches there, little tiny one churches. But it brings history from the first Christians.</p>
			<p>We moved here, and we had to develop the property. More people were coming in the ‘60s. Actually after the middle of the ‘50s, ’55, ’56, up the end of the ‘60s. It was a lot of Greek people were coming. And new families, lots of kids, schools had more than … 1,000 students. There was four schools, and they had at least 300 plus each, each school.</p>
			<p>And of course, those kids grew up. They got married, new generation, everything. Now, of course, it is in a form of the communities, part of the general community. When we opened this community center, we had to make sure that this community center wasn’t a sort of community center for the Greek community. It was a community center to be used by the neighbors, to be used by the community at large.</p>
			<p>We built here in excess of what we were allowed … But we asked the city, “This building will be open to the community”. It’s not such as, only Hellenic. And it was used, and is used, all the time. People to come use for meetings, for this, for seniors, all kinds of people, political gatherings, or whatever.</p>
			<p>And this is good because it ties the community to the rest of the community, to be part of what we are. You see, what I believe, and all of us believe, especially, the ones we found here, people, that we must contribute to the development of the Canadian society. We must be there, like the country is a mosaic. It’s like a dome in those churches in Europe. And that mosaic, by itself is no good, nothing. But all together makes … the important thing.</p>
			<p>And we wanted to be part of that. So when English-speaking people or French-speaking people or any other people come to the community here, they feel they’re in their home. They don’t feel that they’re in a private club or something like … They feel they are home.</p>
			<p>That’s what the Greeks are. They are citizens of the world, really, from the ancient times, keep on traveling, only few, but you must spread it along.</p>
			<p>And I would say that we are very happy about it, what we came. And the festivals that is done, the Greek Day that was established at the time we built this community center was part of that just to open it up. Food festivals and everything in order to collect money, of course, to sustain the society and the buildings itself. But it was with the idea, an open door, an open window to everybody. And it’s worked. It’s worked.</p>
			<p>We just hope that the new generation now, will do that, will continue that, and I think they will. Course the new generation, have more, how can I put it? More to themselves, they are established, they’re educated in this country.</p>
			<p>When we came here, we were just plain people, immigrants from the old country. I had the Board of Directors … I was the President, and sometimes, there’s not one who knows English, and I knew not much myself. You know?</p>
			<p>But we had to do it. I reached outside. I went to people who were educated, and I said, “I need you”. “Oh, I haven’t got time”. “Yes, but I have to send a letter to the Prime Minister. You want me to write it? And ridicule everybody?” I said, “Or you want to come and help me to write it? I’ll give you my opinion, my ideas, but you write it”. You know?</p>
			<p>And many people told me, “Oh, you <abbr>SOB</abbr>, you know how to get people together”. But it was the truth. There was the truth. That’s how it was. It was the influx of the new Greeks in the ‘50s and ‘60s, were the older ones that were born here, for sure, reason, they were just overshadowed on the side. So what I always wanted to make sure they come in.</p>
			<p>You come in because you are the one who knows what to do. You know? The language, you’ve got to meet … We had to meet people. We had to meet … always had participation in our 25th of March, when we had celebrations. We had participation from everybody. It was from other communities, for sure, the politicians, ministers, the Premier, the Prime Minister wanted to … to [inaudible 00:14:38] Prime Ministers themselves came. Other times they sent … So you need to have a nice core. We did that. We did that. Now the new generation’s much better, much better prepared for that.</p>
			<p>In this property, we got $400,000 from the government. And why we got it? Because it was just that. This property, it will be made available to everybody. The city wanted something like that, but it’s the Province who insisted that we want something like that because all community centers, they were not open to people sort of. But this was open to everybody. So there was program in the federal government in those days, but it was in 1970, ’75. It was a program from the federal government that any project, city or public project, when it belongs to individual societies and made available to the rest of the community, they will contribute part of it.</p>
			<p>So we came in, and of course, they contributed, but part of the thing, it was that we are open to everybody. So many times, maybe I bore you with this, people they say, “But Angelo, 25 years passed”. Yes, but our commitment hasn’t passed. It will never pass. 25 years it was, that we have to have it open for everybody. But our commitment is to the community at large. And we’re part of the community at large. And we’re to stay in the community at large because if we don’t stay as a community at large, our young people …</p>
			<p>I have five grandchildren. They’re not gonna be around because they are the community at large, right? And this way, it makes it easy for them. They feel proud to be part of what we are. And I think, in a small way, the Greek community Vancouver contributed a lot to the development of the city … has a good name, very good name out there, very good name.</p>
			<p>We took part with committees in the multi-cultural societies. We took part in the committees in the … We’re part of the … We had a committee to be part of the discussion, national discussions on that, on the immigration. We were present in those important negotiations, that in the last few years as they take place.</p>
			<p>And I think we should be proud about it. And I am. I am, and I think everything’s fine.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
