<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 12</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h1>Larry Wong: “A Community Within a Community”</h1>
			<i> Larry Wong was interviewed in 2015 as part of the This Vancouver <a href ="https://thisvancouver.vpl.ca/islandora/object/islandora:chinatown_stories">Chinatown Stories </a>project. These four excerpts were taken from a longer interview. </i>

			<p>[There] was a movie theater called Rex Theatre on Hasting, just off Carral Street. In fact, it’s near where the present day Army &amp; Navy store is located. I used to go to the Rex Theatre practically every Saturday matinee. It was one of those beautifully designed and built theaters where you pay for your ticket at a box office, you go to the lobby, and you’re greeted by an usher. He’ll take you up the ramp, and when you get up to the top, its mezzanine. And main theatre itself is sort of stadium, so it goes down, but you can go up to the mezzanine.</p>
			<p>And I was always ushered to the upper left side of the theatre, which was fine, but I didn’t understand why he always took me up there, until one day I found out it was because it was Chinese only, like I wasn’t allowed to sit anywhere else in the theatre. So, I didn’t realize that until many years later and I said “Oh my God,” but I’d gotten used to sitting in the upper left section of the theatre. But, I never really contemplated that it was restricted, it was really strange. Anyway, that’s how it was in those days.</p>
			<p>There’s a hotel called the May Wah. But it changed name over the decades, I don’t know why. But it was a picture hotel intended for newly arrived immigrants from a certain part of China. And, in other words, it would be the same district where my father came from. So it was really meant for immigrants from that village or county. And, when they arrive, and if they don’t have any place to stay, they go to this hotel.</p>
			<p>When I was young, because we were living in the back of a tailor shop, see, we didn’t have hot water. Because the store was a store. It wasn’t meant for people living in the back. So you don’t have hot water, you see? So, what we did for hot water was that we had to boil the water and he would put it on the stove and heat it up. And from there, we have water for making tea, because my father loved making tea first thing in the morning. And then, we have hot water for washing our face and so on, you know.</p>
			<p>But we had no bathtub. But my father was very adamant that I would have a bath. And luckily, his close friend lived in this hotel called the May Wah. And he made an arrangement for him to pick me up every Sunday to take a Sunday bath. So the close friend, his name was Dun Sing. He would drag me … Well, not really drag me, but he would take me by the hand back to the hotel. I was about six or seven years old. And he had a single room. Anyway, at the end of the hallway was the washroom. But also, they had a bathroom.</p>
			<p>And then so, he would take me down there, and I would undress. And of course, the bathtub was one of those deep ones with the funny looking legs. And so, he would just fill it up, and I’d go and take my Sunday bath. And that was funny. But, I think it was very typical of the immigrants living in Chinatown at that time. Especially for immigrants who were merchants, and they were living in the back of the store, or the family was living in the back of the store. I think they would have the similar arrangements.</p>
			<p>There was three Chinese schools: one was the Chinese Freemanson, the other one was Mon Keang, and then the other one was a Chinese public school and where I went; it was kitty-corner from Strathcona School on Pender and Jackson Avenue. It used to be an old Ukrainian church, and what the Chinese school did, it used the lower part of the church, so they had several classrooms and also a large area for recess and so on. It was good. I’ve forgotten how much my father paid but there was a fee that you paid to the public school and I think the rest of it was subsidized by the community.</p>
			<p>See, the thing that we learned at the Chinese school wasn’t a certain language or poetry or grammar and all of that, the main thing was learning how to play ping pong. But going to school was very good because Strathcona originally, I think it was one of the first or second elementary schools in Vancouver and they claimed themselves as being the “school of many nations” because when you go there, well, before World War 2, there were a lot of Japanese students but we also had the Ukrainians because the Ukrainians had their church nearby and then you had the Jewish people because they had the Jewish Synagogue nearby. And then you had the Russians because the Russian Orthodox, they had their church nearby as well. So, it was sort of multi-cultural because of that. And also there was a handful of black people living nearby. So there was a fair representation of practically everyone from Vancouver, but they happened to live in Strathcona and they happened to go to this school.</p>
			<p>So, that was one of the wonderful things I learned when I did go to public school, because you learned to get along with one another. In fact I remember in Grade 8 we did this wonderful play called The Highway Man, and there was this scene, it was sort of a Romeo and Juliet scene where the man is up on the balcony and he’s kissing this girl. Well, what was really astounding, this took place in 195⅕2, the young male student was Italian, in fact his name was Gino Santaga, and the young girl he was kissing was Arlene Lane, who happened to be black. It’s like wow, in my mind, it’s like wow, this is the first interracial kiss I’ve ever seen. And it was true because you don’t see that often, let alone in the school play and this was, like I said, 1951. But for the teachers that were doing it, they really didn’t think anything of it because although we were from different backgrounds, we were all students, period, and that’s how they looked at us, just, we were students.</p>
			<p>We learned a great lesson from that, we learned a great sense of tolerance and understanding. It was a wonderful school.</p>
			<p>Within the community it was very self-supporting, and it was from out of necessity, because, really, the Chinese community was shunned by the white population. So, in Chinatown you’ll find that they’ll have their own place to shop for food, business to run. They have their own lawyers, they have their own accountants, they have their own school. So really, it was a community within a community. It was very restrictive, because as I understand it, very few Chinese venture outside of Chinatown, and part of it was because they weren’t that welcome once they got out of the Chinatown.</p>
			<p>In fact, I heard that it was quite rare, even when I was growing up, that a few Chinese would actually venture out to Granville Street, because on Granville Street they had these movie theatres at that time. They were afraid of it, because, again, of the discrimination, they may not be allowed in the movie theatre, or whatever. My sibling didn’t like the idea of living in the village. Basically Chinatown was a village. Everyone knew one another, in fact, I have a friend of mine, his name Wayson Choy, you might have heard of him. We met when we were in kindergarten.</p>
			<p>Anyway, he used to talk a lot about me to his mother. So, his mother was really curious, and she came down to the shop to introduce herself to my father, saying, “Oh, I’m the mother of Wayson.” And so, they had a long chat. But, she wanted to check out my family! I mean, this was really something, because Wayson and I were really good friends, and he talked a lot about me to his mother. It got her curiosity aroused, and so she went down to check it out.</p>
			<p>I guess, just by talking with my parents, and knowing about me from Wayson, she knew that Wayson, had a very good friend, and that his friend has good parents, and that was really valuable. That was a real consideration in family relationships. I don’t know if you see that anymore these days, but it was something of value, and something that you can trust. So, whether that survives today I don’t know, but there it was.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
